[grunts]
[camera shutter snapping]
Whoa!
Geez and rice, man.
Just about gave me
a heart attack.
That's good.
Who are you?
My name's Bob Barnes.
I, uh, working out here
for the forest service.
We're surveying the whole county
trying to eradicate
non-native species of weeds.
As a Native myself, I appreciate
the spirit of your work.
But as the owner
of this property,
I'm gonna have to ask you
to stay off it.
Of course, sir.
I meant no harm.
Sorry to disturb you.
You're positive this was
on Nighthorse's property?
lam.
That guy is intense.
-You saw him?
-He kind of snuck up on me.
You see anything else unusual
on the property?
Yeah, near his garden.
He had this --
this wooden stake stuck down
in the ground, and then it had,
like, a long, thick,
leather strap attached to it.
-What kind of garden?
-l'm not sure.
There was nothing growing,
but the soil was freshly turned.
I think he just planted it.
Vic, you there?
[Vic] Hey, Walt, I'm just
pulling up to the station.
I need you to get
those warrants in order.
[Vic]
Nighthorse?
Yep.
Thanks, Bob.
It's me who should
be thanking you, Walt,
for getting me this job.
It's helping me
to get my footing.
It's volunteer work, Bob.
Doesn't even pay.
True, but it gives me structure,
a sense of responsibility.
Self-respect.
it's court ordered, so...
[Ruby]
Walt, it's Ruby.
How close are you to the
Sinclair station east of town?
Not far.
What's up?
[Ruby] A truckerjust called in
a reckless driver
in a black SUV
heading south on 232
and swerving pretty badly.
Okay, I'll check it out.
[tires squealing]
[siren wailing]
[horn honks]
[tires screech, metal crunches]
Leave me alone.
[grunts]
You all right?
Am I?
I don't know.
lcan't feel my -- anything.
[Walt]
Come on, Barlow.
Let's get you out of there.
[grunts]
-[grunts]
-Easy does it.
Big step.
I got you.
Who's got you?
I'm not sure.
You taking me to jail?
Well, I ought to.
l, uh, think maybe
you've been through enough,
so I'll just take you home,
Barlow.
Okay.
Well, on the --
Oh.
There you are.
Come on.
Buckle up.
l was buckled up.
You de-buckled me.
Get out of the way.
Okay, you do it.
I've got it.
How's your head?
I'm all right.
[engine turns over]
This doesn't look like
my seatbelt.
[rock music plays]
[Cadyl
All set?
[Kevin]
Thank you. Great meal.
[Cady] Um, l-l think there
must be a mistake.
I don't think so.
-The -- The tip is too big.
-Well, how much is it?
It's $50,000.
[chuckles]
Let me see that.
Oh.
I see what I did.
It's not a tip.
It's an offer.
For what?
My name's Kevin Morris.
I work for a Boston-based
law firm called Dow & Morris,
and we just opened an office
here in Durant.
My job is to find and hire
the best lawyers in this state.
Starting with you, "Caddy."
Me? Why?
Your work
on the Henry Standing Bear case.
Word gets out.
You're smart.
You're young.
You know the community.
And we'd much rather have you
arguing beside us
than against us.
You know...
Think it over.
Give me a call.
[sighs]
Mr. Morris, um, it's Cady.
What?
My name -- You
pronounced it wrong. It's Cady.
C-a-d-y?
[Cadyl
Yeah.
I think
you're spelling it wrong.
[sighs]
Aw, shit.
Left the keys in the damn car.
You got a spare?
Or maybe there's
a window open here we can --
[grunts]
[glass shatters, alarm blares]
Sheriff, I want to report
a break-in.
Yeah.
I thought you
might want to sober up.
Hm.
Or maybe go the other way.
Thanks, Walt.
You ought to join me.
Go grab a glass.
Well, I'm not
a whiskey man, so...
Well, beer, then --
There's beer in the fridge.
Any Rainier?
No.
No Rainier.
Just some imported shit.
[chuckles]
I'll pass.
[Barlow sighs]
[sighs]
You know, uh, Barlow, um...
ldon't usually like to discuss
details of investigations,
but, uh, there's something
I think you deserve to know.
I don't think Branch
killed himself.
What?
He's not dead?
I mean I have reason to believe
that someone murdered him.
If somebody killed Branch,
got to be Nighthorse.
Why do you say that?
[Barlow] Well, he's been trying
to get at me
in all sorts of ways.
He planted those old Indian
bones on my golf course
to try and stall my development.
But I don't go down easy.
When he saw he
couldn't get at me, he...
went after the thing I loved.
If someone went after
my daughter, I...
I don't know what I'd do.
-We got to get him.
-I will.
|wi||.
But I need to do it legally,
and you need to stay out of it.
Now, are you gonna be okay
here on your own?
You worried
I'm gonna shoot myself?
Connallys aren't cowards, Walt.
We don't kill ourselves.
Where are the keys
to your other car?
I don't want you driving,
not in your state of mind.
You're grounded
as far as I'm concerned.
Oh, they're, uh,
in the other room in a desk.
-I can -- Oh.
-Come on. Take it easy.
Just -- Right there.
Take a seat.
Okay, they're in there.
[sighs]
-Here you go.
-You're the sheriff.
[sighs] Ooh.
Mm.
Arrowleaf balsamroot.
Thafs
those sunflower-looking things?
[Walt]
They are.
[clears throat]
Well...
for a man of few words, Walt,
this is
one long warrant application.
I wanted to be as thorough
as possible.
Mm-hmm.
Well, I'll tell you what.
I'm gonna give you
a search warrant.
Thank you, Your Honor.
But not for
Jacob Nighthorse's property.
I'll give you a warrant
for my home,
because those sunflowers grow
like weeds along the driveway.
In fact, they grow
practically everywhere.
Not along the river
where we found Branch's body.
Well, that may well be,
but that's not evidence enough
to cast suspicion
on Jacob Nighthorse.
You mean Jacob Blankenship.
Ah, I almost forgot.
The mysterious
legal-name change.
It speaks to a pattern
of deceit.
[chuckles]
It speaks to an Indian wanting
to sound a little more like
an Indian.
Look, you clearly have
a significant bug up your ass
about this, Walt,
but I can't let you
disturb a citizen
based on this thin evidence,
particularly since you've played
so fast and loose with protocol.
I mean, for all I know,
you could've put that dirt
in the shotgun casing.
I fully documented the chain
of custody.
When you deputized
your best friend,
the recently released prisoner,
to transport the evidence.
We're shorthanded, Your Honor.
[Mayhew]
Well, then hire a new deputy.
But your request
for a search warrant
on Jacob Nighthorse's property
is denied.
Walt.
Not in the mood
to talk now, Vic.
Well, that's nothing new,
but you don't have to talk.
We can, like,
go get a burger or something.
I need you to look into
Nighthorse's alibi
for the window of time
around when Branch was killed.
You are his alibi.
You're the one that told me
that he was out of town.
I saw him get off a plane.
How do I know he was
where he said he was?
Could've been an act.
Check his flight details.
Have Ferg
look into his credit cards.
Okay.
Anything else?
The burger --
Thanks, but not tonight.
[engine turns over]
[engine revs, tires squeal]
[Catherine] This is
a confidentiality agreement.
It says that you can't disclose
the firm's trade secrets,
client list, et cetera.
Go ahead and sign here
and initial there.
Okay. Before Ms. Longmire
gets bored and changes her mind,
I thought she might be curious
about her compensation package.
So...
That's not the salary
we discussed.
We haven't talked about salary.
You said $50,000.
That was your year-one bonus,
assuming you meet
certain benchmarks.
We wouldn't expect you
to live on that salary.
-Is -- Is there a problem?
-[Cady chuckles]
No.
No, there's no problem.
Would you like to review
your health-plan options?
Yes, I would like that
very much.
Good morning, Ruby.
How are you today?
Mathias, why don't you
take a seat?
I'll tell the sheriff
that you're here.
That's okay.
I want to surprise him.
Oh, I like what you've done
with your hair, Philly.
Sheriff.
I need to see your guns.
[Walt] What? My guns?
What for?
Oh, what does it matter?
You haven't done anything wrong.
So, just let me take a look
at them.
-You got a warrant?
-Nope.
And you know I couldn't get one
even if I wanted to.
Why would you want to,
except for the simple pleasure
of annoying me?
Someone fired off
two .30-caliber rounds
at Jacob Nighthorse last night.
Where?
Right there at his home.
Nighthorse doesn't live
on the Res.
What's this got to do with you?
Wondered the same thing
when Nighthorse called me
since I have no authority
in your county.
Did you really accuse Nighthorse
of killing Branch?
Then you could understand why
he didn't feel too comfortable
about calling you in.
I didn't shoot at anybody
last night, Mathias.
Great.
Then let me check out
all your guns.
No.
[sighs]
Okay.
Well, I tried.
There's nothing else I can do,
then, except call in the feds.
[man]
Mr. Nighthorse!
[reporters speaking
indistinctly]
The bullet
went right by my head.
Missed me by less than two feet.
[camera shutter snaps]
Now, coming, as this did,
on the heels
of repeated harassment
by Sheriff Longmire,
it's pretty clear to me
that the sheriff was behind
the shooting.
Walt Longmire has tried
to connect me to several crimes
that I had nothing to do with.
So, I'm hopeful that,
by shining a light
on the activities
of his backward, corrupt,
and prejudiced
Sheriff's Department,
we may be able to rein in
the worst of their excesses.
But -- But barring that,
[just want to say right now...
[telephone ringing]
...ifI end up dead
in the coming days or weeks,
the first person you
should look at is your sheriff.
Sheriff's Department.
This is Deputy Ferguson.
[Henry] Hello, Ferg.
This is Henry.
[Ferg] Hey, Henry, you want me
to get the sheriff for you?
[Henry]
Maybe.
Depends on how you answer
a question for me.
Do you know
where he was last night?
[sighs]
l was off duty, so, no,
I don't know where Walt was.
Hello?
Is he gone?
-Who?
-Mathias.
Yeah.
He's gone.
[Vic]
Good.
I don't want to have to answer
any of his questions.
ldon't want him to ask me
where you've been
or where you were last night
or when the last time
I saw you was.
Why not?
Because I don't want
to have to lie for you.
-Vic, listen --
-No.
I don't want you to have to lie
to me, either.
Look, I get it --
It sucks that Nighthorse
is getting away with this,
and it's actually
kind of brilliant
because you shoot at him,
and now his house
is a crime scene
and you don't need
a search warrant anymore,
but, Jesus, Walt!
He has got great lawyers.
And now Mathias
is calling in the feds.
You might've blown your only
chance you had to get him,
and you might even lose
yourjob.
I know that you have a
.30-caliber rifle, and I just --
I cannot get in the middle
of one of these situations
again.
-Vic.
-Not even for you.
-Listen to me.
-What?!
I will never ask you
to lie for me.
I know you can't verify
where l was last night.
No one can.
[sighs]
I need you to take a breath
and go find Bob Barnes.
Bob? Why?
Because what you just said
about Nighthorse's house,
you're right.
We have a way in now.
And Bob knows where we
need to look.
[sighs]
Vic.
Come on,
we got to get over there
before Nighthorse's lawyers
or the feds
find some way to stop us.
What are you doing here?
My job.
Aah!
Mathias reported a crime.
I'm out here to investigate it.
I reported that crime
to Mathias, not you.
He doesn't have any authority
off the Res.
Then I withdraw my report.
Nothing happened here,
and you can be on your way.
Well, someone's, uh,
taking shots
at residents in my county.
-That's a public-safety issue.
-Aw, please!
I don't care if you file
a report or not.
I'm compelled to investigate.
You and I both know
you did this.
Actually, based on how quickly
you pulled
that press conference together,
I'm inclined to think
maybe you did this.
-I shot at myself?
-Sure you did.
Create a false pretense
which allows you
to harass me in the media.
"A false pretense
which allows you to harass me."
That is a perfect turn
of phrase.
I'm gonna pass that along
to my lawyer right now.
Is he in your truck?
Yeah, it's Jacob.
You'll never guess
who just showed up
to search my prOperty --
without a warrant!
Hey.
Show me where you spotted
the arrowleaf balsamroot
and that new flower bed.
Bob?
You never said anything
about people getting shot at.
What?
I thought you got me this job
to help me out.
I didn't know
you were gonna put me in danger.
-You weren't in any danger.
-Oh, come on, Walt.
Why didn't you come out here
and look for that flower
yourself?
I'm not exactly welcome
on Nighthorse's property.
So you send me out here
to trespass for you?
You're not trespassing,
and I would never send you
into danger.
I honestly had no idea
anyone was gonna be firing
a weapon out here.
Now can you please show me
where you saw that flower?
How's about I just point it out
through the window for you?
Fine.
Get photos of everything here.
I want a match on the location
of every one of these flowers
on the property,
then get some soil samples.
What exactly are we looking for,
Sheriff?
Shotgun shells, buckshot,
traces of blood,
anything that proves
this is the real place
where Branch got killed.
You think he was shot here?
Won't know for sure
till you get some samples.
All the documents
our client has
in connection
with this pending suit
are on these drives.
I'm gonna be prepping motions
for discovery.
I need you all to backstop me.
Cady.
We're lawyers.
We don't raise our hand.
We interrupt.
Right, sorry.
It's just that we represent
Connally Enterprises?
No, we're suing
Connally Enterprises --
Barlow Connally specifically.
Do you know him?
l, um, I used to date
his son, so...
[Kevin]
Great.
You should be able to offer
some real insight into this.
I just feel a little weird.
Cady.
-Yeah.
-We're filing motions.
It's not like you'll be facing
off against Barlow in court.
Oh.
Good.
And besides,
if you recuse yourself
from every case
in Absaroka County
where you know someone
on the other side,
you won't be able
to practice law at all.
This is life in a small town.
All right, next.
Whoever fired that shot
must've been in this area, so...
[Vic]
Hmm.
It's almost like
you know exactly where to go.
There aren't too many spots
it could've been.
Nighthorse would want to suggest
the shooter needed cover.
If it wasn't Nighthorse,
the highway's
a few hundred yards to the east.
Someone could've walked in
from there.
There's horse shit
all over the place.
Maybe the shooter rode in.
Nighthorse got a horse?
lthink so.
Just do what I said
and call me back in an hour.
Okay.
Yeah, bye.
The company suing Barlow
is Big Pines Timber.
[Kevin]
Yes.
Big Pines Timber is owned
by Jacob Nighthorse.
Yes, we represent
all of Nighthorse's businesses.
-You look confused.
-I am.
The document
that I just read said
that Nighthorse
is suing Barlow Connally
for breach of contract,
but those two are sworn enemies.
What contract could they
possibly have?
They may not like each other,
but they have
a number of business deals
through shell corporations --
or they did have.
This lawsuit might bring that
to a close.
I quit.
What?
Why?
B-Because of Barlow Connally?
Look, I told you,
you're just support on this.
All right, look, if you're
really that uncomfortable --
I am, but not because
of Connally.
Because of Nighthorse
and the casino.
I can't work for a firm
that represents the casino.
[chuckles]
What's so funny?
Only that the casino
is the reason you're here.
Your success
on the Standing Bear case,
y-your connections
to the Native community,
your support of their causes --
You are the perfect person
to handle reservation issues.
That's true -- to a point.
I mean, you have to understand,
my mother, she spent
her last years on this planet
fighting the casino,
and for me to stay here
and work for them,
it's a betrayal,
and I'm -- I'm sorry.
I-I can't do it, so...
-Well.
Well, this is, uh...
...unexpected.
I know.
I'm so grateful.
l was really excited
about this job.
-If you'd just told me --
-|t's your responsibility
to research a company
you plan to work for.
Right.
I must've just gotten excited.
Anyway, I'm really sorry
I wasted your time.
And our money.
These were valuable, billable
hours you put in today.
I realize that.
Then, why haven't you packed
your stuff and left,
or are you trying
to waste more of our money?
-Okay.
-Not the pad.
That belongs to us.
This is mine.
[chuckles]
Normally,
I wouldn't think it necessary
to remind another lawyer
about this,
but clearly you're
a little green, so I will.
Everything that you read
and wrote in here today
belongs to us.
You signed
nondisclosure agreements
that couldn't be clearer
on that matter.
So, you cannot take your notes
and you cannot discuss
anything you learned
in here today with anyone.
So, if this whole act of yours
was designed to get you access
to private information
about the casino
your mommy didn't like,
know that we will prosecute you,
and it is very hard
to defend a civil lawsuit
on a waitress' salary.
You can close the door
behind you.
Henry's friend from
the university rushed the tests
on those soil samples
from Nighthorse's house.
None of them matched the dirt
we found in the shotgun casing.
It's a totally different
mineral composition.
And no traces of blood, lead,
or gunpowder.
The only thing that was the same
was arrowleaf balsamroot pollen.
at the White Plains airport
in New York.
So, Nighthorse did land there
the night of Branch's murder,
and he took a helicopter
out to the Foxwoods Casino.
They're sending me
the security footage now
to verify that.
So, Nighthorse has a better
alibi for Branch's murder
than I do for shooting
at Nighthorse.
-[chuckles]
-[clears throat]
Too soon?
Okay, so, uh, he has an alibi.
Doesn't Nighthorse
usually get someone else
to do his dirty work?
Yeah, he does,
but David Ridges is dead,
and according to Henry,
Malachi's out of town.
[Ferg]
Hey,SherHï¬
Uh, while we're on the subject,
I've been wondering
about something --
about those surveillance cameras
that you think were stolen
from Branch's house.
Why would Nighthorse take them?
I mean --
-You're thinking Nighthorse
was the one
who brought them to us
in the first place.
Right, if he thought
those cameras
had incriminating video on them,
why would he
willingly turn them over?
-It just doesn't make any sense.
-I know.
I know it doesn't make
any sense, Ferg.
-Don't raise your voice
at him Walter.
-|t's okay.
Here you go.
[sighs]
What does Barlow want?
He left his phone
in his wrecked SUV.
You never filed any paperwork
about a wrecked SUV,
so I didn't know
what he was talking about.
I can get that phone for him.
Anything else?
They're on hold.
[clears throat]
-Tell them I'm not here.
-Walter.
[Vic]
Ruby.
Who's on hold?
[door closes]
-Hey, honey.
-Hi.
[Vic] Hey.
You just missed your dad.
Good. Actually, I, uh,
kind of wanted to talk to you.
-Me?
-Yeah.
Really? Why?
I need some professional advice.
From me?
Have you ever been working
on a case
and you got good information,
but the way you got
that information
wasn't exactly legal?
[sighs] This wouldn't happen
to have anything to do
with your dad, would it?
It might.
Well, you're gonna have to
tell me what this is about.
See, that's the problem.
l-l can't.
Then, I can't help you.
lcan't help anyone
break the law.
[Cady]
I'm trying not to break the law.
[sighs]
Look --
All I can say is that I
may have found something
that would give Nighthorse
motive in Branch's murder.
I think he was caught
between two people.
What two people?
Do we know them?
Okay, now I feel like
you're not really hearing me.
Right, you can't tell me.
I signed
a confidentiality agreement,
so anything that I say to anyone
can get thrown out in court,
and I know my dad
wants to do this by the book,
so what do I do?
You find another source.
I mean, you know
the information already.
You just need to find
a different way to get it.
A different way
that you can explain to a lawyer
that doesn't violate
whatever
confidentiality agreement
you may have signed.
Can you find another source?
[rock music plays]
[Henry]
So, this is a bit on the nose.
-What?
-A cop drowning his troubles
and pouring out his soul
to the local tavern keeper.
Yeah.
Except you're not really
the local tavern keeper here.
Malachi is.
Also, you are not pouring out
yoursouL
and you are not drinking.
I need a new boot.
This is why you are upset?
Your boots are not comfortable?
When I was 8 or 9 years old,
my...
...my mom got me some boots --
nice ones.
I loved them.
Six months in,
my feet had grown.
My toes hurt.
Actually had bruises on them.
I kept wearing those boots.
You never were
the brightest child.
I'm doing it again.
With Nighthorse.
None of the evidence fits.
Nothing says he killed Branch
except my gut.
I want to believe it.
-At a certain point --
-Your feet start to hurt.
So, if it was not Nighthorse
who killed Branch,
who else could it be?
And if the murder
was not connected to Ridges,
what was it about?
I have absolutely no idea.
[Barlow]
Hello, there.
[sighs]
Surprised me.
Oh, I'm sorry.
-I was out back shoeing a horse.
-Oh.
Aren't you a sight
for sore eyes.
Ah, good to see you, hon.
-What happened?
-Oh, that.
I had a little fender bender.
Your dad actually helped me out
with it.
-Do you want to come on inside?
-Yeah.
Want a cup of coffee
or anything? It's right here.
No, I'm -- I'm good.
Thank you.
[Barlow] So...
what brings you around, Cady?
Oh, um, I found some things
I thought you might like.
A picture and just some things
that Branch left at my house --
nothing special.
A mug, golf gloves.
Nothing, really.
I appreciate it.
But I'm pretty sure he'd want
you to hang on to this stuff.
Okay.
Are you sure?
You meant so much to him.
Yeah.
So, how are you holding up?
[chuckles] I wish I could say
l was keeping it together,
but it hasn't been easy.
You must really miss him.
Especially since Branch
just started working with you.
Must've been nice to have him
right there beside you.
Yeah, it was
kind of a dream come true.
I bet.
What was he doing for you
anyway, work-wise?
lwould've thought
he'd told you that.
To be honest, Branch and l
hadn't really been
communicating.
We broke up
a month before he died.
Oh.
I didn't realize.
Yeah.
So, you and Branch
weren't together?
No.
l-l'm sorry I didn't tell you
at the funeral.
It just didn't seem like
the time.
And it's not exactly true
that there wasn't
any communication between us.
He sent me a bunch of texts
the night before Dad found him.
But...
But what?
[Cadyl
I don't know.
They -- You know,
the texts were kind of crazy.
Yeah, he -- he sent me
some texts, too.
I just figured he'd been
drinking.
So I didn't do anything.
-If only --
-Barlow.
If you've spoken to my dad,
you know that Branch
did not commit suicide.
There's nothing
you could've done.
Well, maybe he
didn't kill himself,
but I still think
I could've stopped him.
Stopped him from doing what?
I think Branch got himself
all worked up, emotional,
and confronted Nighthorse.
Why? I mean, what would Branch
know about Nighthorse?
I don't know.
Probably something about
this David Ridges business.
Well, it's... probably
not any comfort,
but now that my dad knows
that he didn't commit suicide,
he won't rest
until he figures it out.
[Walt] Aah!
Ruby said you'd be here --
dodging the feds.
[sighs]
I was just getting Barlow
his phone back.
Really just a one-person job,
so...
Yeah, well,
I needed to talk to you, so...
Cady came by.
She said that she found out
something about Nighthorse
that would explain
why he'd want to kill Branch,
but she can't reveal it
without breaking the law, so...
lam just gonna ask you --
Did you find out something
about Nighthorse
when you shot at him
and you're making your daughter
launder the information
for you?
-Vic, listen to me --
-Before you deny it,
I found this on the hill
at Nighthorse's house.
It was on the ground
right around where the shooter
would've been standing.
I w-will lie for you.
It's what I came here
to tell you.
I'll say whatever
you want me to say.
| just need you to tell me
what the hell's going on.
I told you already.
I will never ask you
to lie for me.
The last person to accuse me
with an empty beer can
was Branch.
He was wrong then
just like you're wrong now.
I was at home that night.
That's the truth.
Why wouldn't you
just tell me that?
Because you
weren't ready to listen.
Everything I said
would've seemed like a lie.
Well, if that's the case, then
someone left that can there
to frame you,
someone who knows
that you drink Rainier.
Yep.
[bang]
So, what did Cady discover?
[sighs] That Branch was caught
between two people.
What two people?
She refused to tell me.
So, tell me
what you found out about Branch.
Wow.
Thanks, Vic.
Some secrets you don't keep.
-This one I have to.
-Why?
-Who are you protecting?
-Myself.
Dad, I signed
a confidentiality agreement.
I got a job at a new law firm.
-You got a job?
-Yeah.
-That's great.
-It is great.
It's the best job
I'll ever find in this county,
and I already quit.
I had to.
The firm wasn't what
I thought it was.
l-l didn't like
who they represented.
They represent Nighthorse.
[laughs]
I can't say.
Anything that I say to you,
they'll presume that
I'm violating my agreement,
and they will sue me.
And you found something.
Maybe.
I tried to get the information
a different way
so that I wasn't violating
my agreement.
How'd you do that?
I went to talk to Barlow.
What did you think
you were gonna get from Barlow?
Dad, please don't make me
do the wrong thing here.
Why does everybody keep saying
I'm trying to make them do
the wrong thing?
Because I know how much this
means to you.
It means a lot to me, too.
Cady, what did you and Barlow
talk about?
You can tell me that.
We talked about his car accident
and about the crazy texts
that Branch sent both of us
the night before he died.
We talked about David Ridges,
and I came clean about the fact
that Branch and I broke up.
And we talked about everything
except the thing
I wanted to talk about.
So...
Branch sent all those texts
to Barlow, too?
Yeah.
He said he thought Branch
had been drinking
and went after Nighthorse.
[scoffs]
[knock on door]
[Walt] Barlow.
Barlow?
Hello?
[sighs]
[spits]
[engine shuts off]
[boards creak]
[horse snorts]
[rifle cocks]
[piano notes play]
[hinges creak]
[Barlow] Door was open.
You really ought to keep it
locked, even out here.
[rifle clicks]
I could've shot you, Barlow.
Nah, you got good instincts,
Walt.
I had no idea you played piano.
Well, I don't play it much
anymore, so...
You rode over?
Well, you took my keys.
[chuckles]
Your horse need water?
[Barlow]
No, she's fine.
How about you?
You twist my arm,
I'll take a bourbon.
[Walt sighs]
[sighs]
So, to what do I owe
this pleasure?
[Barlow] Well, I'm not sure
it's gonna be a pleasure.
I came over here to confess to
something.
But I'm sure you
already figured it out.
Out of bourbon.
So...
[sighs]
Tell me what you did, Barlow.
Well... it's not like
I planned it.
I just found myself there
with a gun in my hand,
and, uh...
I shot at Nighthorse.
Why?
Son of a bitch killed my son.
You said so yourself.
Well, you, uh...
caused a real problem
for me, Barlow.
Nighthorse thinks
I'm the one that shot at him.
[Barlow] Well,
that's what I'm doing here.
I want to come clean.
I'm prepared to face
the consequences.
Well, I understand
wanting to take out the man
that killed the person I love,
but that's
not what happened here.
Now, why would I make that up?
[Walt]
Well, I know you shot at him.
But you're lying about why.
You're a pretty good shot,
Barlow.
You wouldn't
have missed him twice
if you were trying
to hit him, no.
No, that wasn't about revenge.
You were trying to miss him,
pin it on me.
That's why you left
the Rainier can behind.
[chuckles]
I think that beer's
gone straight to your head.
[Walt chuckles]
[sighs]
You even used a gun
the same caliber as my rifle.
Even I was starting to think
I'd done it.
[can clatters]
You're crazy.
[Walt]
Why frame me, Barlow?
Unless you're trying to take
my focus off
investigating Branch's murder.
Why would I want to do that?
Because you don't want me
to find out
who was really behind it.
We already know
who was behind it.
Well, whoever it was
knew Branch well.
Knew where he hid his key.
Knew how to get into his house.
He typed a suicide note
on his computer
that sounded like Branch.
With one exception.
They didn't know that Branch
and my daughter
had broken up a few weeks ago.
I understand Cady came by
and broke the news to you.
You think a father could kill
his own son?
You really think
I'm capable of that?
Well, I didn't before today.
But you told Cady you got
some texts from Branch
the night before he died.
Well, uh...
I looked on your phone, and
not only did you get no texts
from him that night,
but, uh, over the past year,
you barely texted at all.
Well, I'm just like you.
I'm not much of a texter.
Well, actually, you are.
You wrote all those texts
to Cady from Branch's phone.
You did everything you could
to make it look like a suicide.
You drove Branch's truck
back to his house.
You wrote a note
on his computer.
You got his uniform,
staged that whole thing
down by the river
where the water would wash away
anything you overlooked.
How'd you get yourself home
from there, Barlow?
ldidn't see any signs
of your horse down at the river.
I guess you could've used that,
uh, mountain bike
I saw at your house.
Oh, anyway, I --
I got to hand it to you.
You thought of everything.
Really, your only mistake...
...was the shotgun.
After you shot Branch,
you ejected the shell,
just -- just out of instinct.
You didn't realize when you
put it back in the weapon
there was dirt inside the shell
and pollen.
Pollen from flowers
I found on your property.
Well, I got to hand it
to you, Walt.
You are one
sharp son of a bitch.
You seem to have an answer
for everything.
Well, not everything.
I still don't know why.
Why you would kill your own son.
Because he wasn't my son,
you son of a bitch! That's why!
Now, he might've had my genes,
but he didn't have my character.
He had no --
no sense of loyalty about him.
Even after he started
working for me,
he was still working for you!
Working for me?
Yeah.
On what?
Well, if you don't know,
I'm sure as hell
not gonna tell you.
You took those cameras
from Branch's house.
All this while, I thought...
...Branch found out something
about Nighthorse
on those surveillance cameras,
but it was you.
It was you.
He was surveilling Nighthorse,
but he found out something
about you.
[chuckles]
Oh, he was a smart boy. Yeah.
He discovered it weeks before
you did.
And my daughter figured it out
earlier today.
She --
Branch got caught
between you and Nighthorse.
You two aren't enemies.
You're --
You're working together.
[chuckles]
Your real-estate developments,
your golf course --
None of that pays off
without a lot of people.
People that Nighthorse's casino
will bring.
That Indian had a lot of good
ideas, not much capital.
My wife and I... were
in your way.
You know what the definition
of a conservationist is, Walt?
That's somebody
who's already got his own land
and tries to squash
everybody else's chance
of getting some of their own.
You and your wife
were living out here
and just killing
everybody else's chance
of making some money
for themselves.
You...
...and Nighthorse...
...killed her.
That's what Branch thought
to begin with.
[sighs]
David Ridges killed your wife.
On whose orders?
Mine.
I had worked too hard
and too long
to let you and that bitch wife
of yours stand in my way.
Why didn't you just kill me?
Oh, no.
That would've drawn too much
attention.
So, when you couldn't get
at me...
...you went after the thing
I loved.
[Barlow]
Oh, come on, Walt.
Martha had cancer.
She was already dead.
Now, what did I do?
Shorten her life by a few weeks?
Maybe a few months.
I'll see you rot for this
for the rest
of your miserable life.
You won't.
This is my county.
There's no way that I'm gonna
let you lock me up.
Nobody is taking me
from my rightful home.
Drop the gun!
[pistol clicking]
[sighs]
You just shot a defenseless man.
You invited me to your cabin
and then you killed me.
[chuckles]
You're not gonna die,
you son of a bitch.
I won't let you.
Not gonna let you --
Get up!
-Let me go.
-Get up!
-Aah!
-Come on!
They're gonna sew you up,
and you're gonna have to live
with what you've done!
l...
[breathing heavily]
I'm not going to a hospital.
You just let me die, Walt.
You know you want to.
I killed my own son.
Aah!
I killed him!
[grunts]
[laughs]
Good luck explaining this one,
Walt.
[grunts]
I'll be ready.
And you'll be in hell.
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]